GILLIAN: (WHISPERING)
Anna, Anna!
-Help me!
-ANNA: Don't move.
Anna...
DUTCH: Anna. Are you okay?
-Anna, can you hear us?
-GILLIAN: Anna, Anna,
help me...
Gillian.
Anna, please, we don't
have time for this.
ANNA: I'm thirsty.
FERGUS:
How did your fingerprints
get in the piggery?
I touched the railing.
You said
you didn't go in there.
I said
I didn't touch anything.
I forgot about the railing.
There were moths.
Everywhere.
-They follow the light.
-FERGUS: What were you doing
at the old Sullivan house?
It was my mother.
I think she called for me.
Interview terminated
at 11:34 a.m.
(DOOR OPENS, CLOSES)
ROY: She can go?
Yes, on the condition
that she stays with you.
We'll need
to talk to her again.
Okay.
I'm worried about her, Roy.
She seems to be...
I don't know,
hallucinating or something.
She just lost her mother.
I know, and I'm sorry.
Are you aware that she
takes anti-psychotic drugs?
Sandra told me.
Sandra should mind
her own bloody business.
You may have a problem
with me, Fergus,
but don't take it out on Anna.
She's meant to be your friend.
-(CAR STARTING OUTSIDE)
-She isn't the Anna
that I used to know.
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(FRIDGE DOOR OPENING)
ROY: You must be hungry.
I can make you
a chicken sandwich.
No, thank you.
Um...
I know it must be hard to...
And losing your mother
when you... When you
just found her.
Perhaps you need
to see someone.
Sometimes we die
because we die.
Well, the police said
you have to stay here.
Come on, Gracie.
(DOOR OPENS)
(DOOR CLOSES)
(DIALLING)
(ON RECORDING)
This is Fiona McKenzie.
Please leave a brief message
after the beep.
(BEEP)
(CAR DOOR CLOSES)
(CAR ENGINE STARTING)
SANDRA: Some water's
been contaminated.
It's just
a precautionary measure.
We're testing everyone in town
in the next day or so.
WOMAN: That's all we need.
(FERGUS CLEARS THROAT)
-Hey.
-MAITLAND: Constable,
Dr Maitland.
We need to cut off
the water supply to the town.
-Can you alert people?
-Yeah, sure.
I'll get on to it.
MAITLAND: We're getting some
pretty heavy readings here.
Where does the, uh,
main water supply
come in from?
The catchment
up behind the ridge.
MAITLAND: Right, okay.
I'll need to access it.
Good luck with that.
My old man owns half and I
can't bloody get up there.
You'll need to talk to
Craig Grayson or Max Holloway.
Right.
MAX: (CLEARS THROAT)
Okay, fellas.
It's with a very,
very heavy heart
I need to inform you that
as of next Friday,
the mill will be shut down.
(GRUMBLING)
New owners will be taking over
in the next few weeks.
I just wanna say that, uh,
I tried as hard as I could
to prolong this decision,
but as you all know,
we couldn't fulfil
the contract.
MAN 1: Yeah,
and whose fault's that?
MAN 2: Yeah...
And as a result, Jack Steadman
just had no choice
but to shut us down.
MAN 1: Bullshit, what is going
to happen to us?
MAX: You're gonna be paid out
until the end of next month.
-Yeah, and then what?
-Look, I'm sorry.
I did my best.
-It's not good enough.
-MAX: Hey...
-Whose fucking side
are you on?
-MAX: Come on.
It's not fucking
good enough, Max.
Listen,
we're all in the same boat.
I've got a million bucks
-tied up in equipment
out there.
-Bloody hell.
Adam, what are you doing
out of hospital?
I wanna work.
Well, there's no work, mate.
The mill's closed down.
What are you talking about?
The mill shut down, mate.
-No!
-Mate, take it easy...
-Hey, hey, hey...
-Hey, hey, hey.
Take it easy with him,
he's hurt. He's hurt!
Adam, Adam, just calm down.
Hey, hey,
just stay here, mate.
Just...
Don't go anywhere, mate.
Just stay.
(BIKE ENGINE REVVING)
(ON RECORDING)
This is Fiona McKenzie.
Please leave a brief message
after the beep.
-(BEEP)
-It's Anna Macy.
Can you call me back, please,
I need to speak to you.
(DOG HOWLING)
You can let Lofty out.
Results of the blood came in
and they match seal blood,
just like he said.
That's a pity. I thought
we could wrap this up.
Who've we got left?
I'm still intrigued
by Anna's claim
that Chloe was scared
of someone.
Right, let's narrow down
some facts.
Who hasn't got an alibi?
Travis Kingston.
Still missing.
Have they got back to us
about the paint flakes
and the glass?
No, they're
still being analysed.
We're waiting on the results
of two tyre prints,
but they both belong
to a smaller car.
I've got a partial
fingerprint here...
Who else
has no alibi after 11:00 p.m.?
Craig Grayson.
Adam Holloway. Macca. Singlet.
They were all up at the party,
along with Dane.
I told you, Dane was with me.
And Macca does have an alibi,
as it turns out.
-Oh, yeah, who?
-Sandra.
She came in here this morning.
Statement's there
on your desk.
Seems he went there
after the party.
Ah, women.
They're fickle, aren't they?
-You're an expert, are ya?
-I've had my share.
The only other fingerprint
matches a bloke
who presumably died in 1998.
Nice one.
Keep up the good work, Fergus.
Adam.
What are you doing here,
sweetheart?
What is it?
You shouldn't be walking,
sweetheart.
You should be...
Why aren't you
in the hospital?
Adam.
What is it?
Your free bed and breakfast
ends today.
Off you go, Lofty.
Go and save a seal.
Thank you for the food.
It was lovely.
I'll let Fergus know.
He made it especially for you.
"If we say we have no sin,
"we deceive ourselves,
"and the truth is not in us."
Book of John,
chapter 1, verse 8.
FERGUS: Come on, Dane.
You can't back out of it now.
-We've got him.
-You don't know
what he's like.
He'll twist it.
I do know what he's like,
and he's not going to be able
to twist anything.
All right, mate?
All you have to do
is tell the truth,
that you and Chloe were
picking up the drugs for him.
He'll get me
like he got Chloe.
All right.
I'll have you summonsed.
Nobody heard me
say anything to you.
I'll deny everything.
Shit! Fuck! Fuck!
(GROANS)
Dr McKenzie?
Fiona?
FIONA: Wendy Macy, sample six.
The cell count looks low.
Her system's compromised.
I suspect the enzyme
is altering
the internal machinery
of the T-cells...
Sweetheart,
you still need treatment.
I wanna work.
What the hell is that?
Leave me alone!
You all
need to leave me alone.
FIONA: The strangest thing is
many of Wendy's cells
now seem altered
and appear almost like
mirror images of each other.
She seems to have been exposed
to a pathogen
of unknown origin,
and this is what killed her.
ELIZA: It's not like anyone's
gonna miss us.
Chloe was right
to want to get out of here.
DANE:
Chloe got herself killed.
You shouldn't touch her stuff.
Aunty Barb
said I could have it.
I bet she didn't.
There's nothing for us here.
I can't leave my Pop.
He's blind.
I reckon he can see
more than you can.
We don't have any money.
Where would we go?
We could do a couple more runs
for Dutch.
-How did you know about that?
-Chloe told me.
She told me everything.
Stay away from Dutch.
He's dangerous.
What, do you reckon
he killed her?
He'll never leave you alone.
You know that, don't you?
And he'll hunt you down
and kill you too.
Hey, I reckon I know
where Chloe might have
hidden some money.
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
MAITLAND:
State Health Authority.
-Craig Grayson?
-Yeah.
We need to take
a team of people
up to Mother Sullivan's Ridge,
first light tomorrow.
SANDRA: How did you do this?
Being a dick.
-You're good at that.
-Aren't I just?
You're lucky it's not broken.
I'm sorry I hurt you, Sandra.
Will you come over for dinner?
Let me make it up to you?
I don't know what time
I'll be finished up here.
I'll wait.
Thought you didn't like
eating after 8:00.
I'll make an exception.
That's big of you.
-Shit.
-Don't move.
Hey, were you
with Macca after the party
the other night?
(STAMMERS) It's just because
it gives him an alibi.
Really?
You came here to ask me
if I was with Macca?
No. I wanted to say I'm sorry.
I care about you.
-No, you don't, Fergus.
-Look...
Can we talk
about this over dinner?
-I have to go.
-DUTCH: Come on, Fergus.
-Sandra?
-I'll think about it.
DUTCH:
God's country, this island.
Do you believe in God?
No.
My old man said faith
was a sign of weakness.
Something to cling on to
when all else fails.
-Maybe he was right.
-My old man's always right.
That's his religion.
What's with your hand?
-Was she worth it?
-It wasn't about a girl.
You should direct your anger
where it belongs, Fergus.
-Oh, yeah?
Where's that, Dutch?
-At yourself.
You're just so disappointed
in yourself.
You're so full of shit,
you know that?
-Truth hurts, eh?
-Truth?
What the fuck
would you know about truth?
You never wanted
to be a cop, did ya?
You're just doing
what Roy Macy wanted.
You feel obliged to him
for taking over
when your old man drowned.
(TYRES SCREECH)
Get out.
(DOOR SHUTS)
Dane told me
your alibi was false.
Dane wouldn't know
what day it was.
He said that
you put him up to it.
He's terrified. He thinks
that you killed Chloe.
Why would I do that?
You were using her and Dane
to bring in drugs.
Which was cleared
by Head Office, by the way.
I know your old man
has influence.
Dane chickened out.
He was scared
of what you might do to him.
If you want to be a good cop,
Fergus, don't take idiots
at face value.
I will keep going
until I prove it.
Prove what?
You know, I want
to find Chloe's killer
as much as you do,
and some bastard's out there
getting away with it
because you and I are here
fart-arsing around,
taking swipes at each other.
We need to pull together.
I'm not going to stop, Dutch.
(ENGINE SPUTTERING)
-(SIGHS)
-(ENGINE SPUTTERS)
Come on.
(ENGINE SPUTTERS)
-Seriously?
-Great.
(SIGHS) Come on.
-Try it again.
-I'm trying.
-(FAINT RUMBLING)
-What the fuck?
-(RUMBLING INTENSIFIES)
-There's nothing there.
(SCREECHING)
Fuck!
-(DEAFENING ROAR)
-(SHOUTING)
(ROAR DISSIPATES)
-What the fuck was that?
-I don't know.
Try the engine again.
(ENGINE STARTING)
-Hey, Renae. Is Travis here?
-No.
How come he left his car?
Um, sorry
I can't offer you tea.
The water's off.
Have you heard from him
at all, Renae?
RENAE: I suppose
the whole town's
laughing at me.
There's nothing funny
about a girl being murdered.
He didn't kill Chloe.
FERGUS: Did he come home
after the party that night?
DUTCH: Renae.
Do you mind if we look around?
Sure.
I couldn't find anything
in the car.
He must have left in a hurry.
Did you find anything?
No, mate.
Seems like a bloke on the run.
SANDRA: Sorry I'm late.
This is all I could get
this time.
MAX: Dinner's ready, Barb.
I feel like
it's all coming to an end.
DUTCH: Hey, boys.
Sorry to hear about the mill.
Bit of a blow for this town.
Understatement of the decade.
-Buy you a beer?
-Yeah.
Three beers, thanks.
Yeah, I've been meaning
to ask you both.
Whatever happened
to Travis Kingston?
I haven't seen him in days.
Really?
He ought to be back by now.
Oh, yeah,
what'd you do to him?
Let's just say, uh,
he won't be hassling Lize
anytime soon.
Who won't be hassling Lize
anytime soon?
No one, Mum.
(ELECTRICITY CRACKLES)
DUTCH: Stay away from me!
You okay? Dutch.
-What are you doing here?
-The door was open.
Drink?
MAN: (ON RADIO)
...and showers today.
There's no question
people are doing it tough
down here lately.
The switchboard's been jammed
all day with concerned locals.
Let's hear from a few more.
Evelyn, are you there?
EVELYN: Hi.
My husband just lost his job
at the mill today.
It's been his life.
What's he gonna do now?
What are we going to do?
I've already lost two sons
to the mainland
because of
the work situation here.
MAN: I can hear the hurt
in your voice, Evelyn.
A lot of people
share that feeling today.
(MOBILE PHONE RINGING)
Senior Constable
Fergus McFadden.
Rifles? Where?
Okay, how... How many?
All right, mate.
Okay, yep, I'll...
I'll come 'round in a sec.
All right mate, yep. Just...
Yeah, I'll see you soon.
MAN: On the phone,
he's an expert on toxic waste,
and maybe he can
shed some light
on what is going on up there
on the ridge.
ANNA: I'm sick, Dutch.
I think I might be dying.
(CRIMSON AND CLOVER PLAYING)
(RECORD SKIPPING)
(CHOKING)
(PANTING)
DUTCH: I dreamt I was
at Mother Sullivan's Ridge.
You know those goggles
I showed you?
Mmm-hmm.
I can't stop thinking about it
since I put them on.
What are they, Anna?
-Have you seen them before?
-What'd you see?
I don't know.
Maybe it was just trees.
There's a boy
who lives near the ridge.
He has the same markings
Chloe had.
She spent
a lot of time up there,
at the old Sullivan house.
What, you think the markings
come from the ridge?
The inspectors think
the toxic waste
is coming from there.
(EXHALES)
I need your help.
I didn't kill Chloe, Dutch.
There must be other evidence,
other fingerprints
apart from mine.
There's a partial fingerprint,
but it must have been
a misread.
It's a scientist
who was in Antarctica in '98.
Why did you have
his fingerprint?
Mistake. It happens.
It was on the underside
of Chloe's belt.
But why was he on record
in the first place?
Security clearance
for Antarctica.
-What was his name?
-(SIGHS)
Uh, David...
Owen. David Owen,
something like that.
MAX: Barb?
Barb, where are you?
Barb...
Jesus...
Barb, Barb...
Come on. (GRUNTS)
Bring 'em up, Barb.
Bring 'em up.
(RETCHES)
Please... Please...
BARBARA:
I wasn't there for her, Max.
(SOBBING)
-I wasn't there.
-Don't leave me, Barb.
-Chloe wouldn't want that.
-(BARBARA SOBS)
We're okay.
We're gonna be okay.
You're gonna have
to get another job.
I need more for rent.
You hear me?
Yes, Mum.
Nothing's free
in this world, Eliza.
When are you leaving, son?
I'm not.
Don't lie to me, Dane.
I've, uh... I've got
a few savings you can have.
No, I'm all right.
I've got some saved
from the cafe.
Do you good
to get away from here.
I'll come back.
Not if you're smart,
you won't.
The scientist from Antarctica
you told me about.
Do you have
a photograph of him?
What's this about?
Is there any chance
he could still be alive?
-No. Impossible.
-Do you have a photo?
Wait here.
Can't say I remember
what he looked like.
He wasn't a part of my group.
David Owen.
He's amongst that lot
somewhere.
I'm not sure
you want to see these,
but this is what was left
of the camp.
Christ.
There is no chance
that he could be alive.
A similar incident
occurred in Russia.
A place called Dyatlov Pass.
They were found half-naked
in the snow.
Whatever it was
caught them by surprise.
They never found David Owen.
I managed to get these shots
after the place
had been cordoned off.
Of course,
the whole thing was hushed up.
When I started
asking questions,
they shut me down and
they sent me back to the UK.
Why do you ask?
His fingerprints
were identified
on Chloe Holloway's body.
Are you positive?
The police
think it's a mistake.
Well, it must be.
He couldn't have got out
of there alone.
There wasn't another ship
for six months.
-Can I keep these?
-You can have the group shot.
Thank you.
Be careful, Anna.
DANE: Come on, let's do this.
CRAIG: They're gonna be
crawling all over this place
in the morning.
MAX: I think
it's all over, mate.
CRAIG: It's never
gonna be over.
Shit!
What the bloody hell is it?
It must have bubbled up
from the storm.
It's everywhere.
Roy said it was low-grade.
So why's everyone in the town
dropping like flies?
-(DULL BUZZING)
-What's that noise?
Must be
the transmission tower.
Bloody loud enough.
What are we gonna do?
Dump a tonne of soil on it
and bury it once and for all.
-Fuck!
-Jesus fucking Christ.
MAX: Oh, Christ, it's Travis.
ROY: You lied to me.
Roy, it's not safe
for you to be here.
You said whatever
we buried up here
was harmless.
You knew it was more
than toxic waste
when you took the money.
-I took it to help the town.
-You did it
to control the town.
You wanted to be the hero,
then it backfired.
Now get out of here.
I'm not gonna let you
take Anna.
Corrupt to the very end, eh?
-You've done enough damage.
-Anna can make
her own decisions, Roy.
-She's not capable.
-She's very strong.
She's come back here
for a reason.
I've already lost a daughter
and a wife.
I'm not gonna lose Anna too.
So, what're you gonna do, Roy?
You gonna shoot me?
How's that gonna help?
Please...
Whatever deal we had
has nothing to do with her.
All of this,
it's caused nothing but chaos.
And out of chaos comes change.
I'll tell the people
of this town
what you've been doing
up here all this time.
How you've been
poisoning them.
Don't you do
anything stupid, Roy.
You go back into town, now.
(RUSTLING)
MAX: All right.
CRAIG: Let's just get this
over and done with.
MAX: There's gotta be...
No, there's gotta be
another way.
CRAIG: Not that I
can bloody see.
-All right? Okay, go!
-MAX: Yeah.
This doesn't feel right.
We can't take the risk.
I have no intention
of doing time,
especially not for
a piece of shit like him.
What if he killed Chloe?
You want to go
to jail for him?
FERGUS: Shit.
Fergus.
That fingerprint you found,
I know who it belongs to.
What fingerprint?
David Owen.
The scientist from Antarctica.
How do you know about that?
-Anyway, that was a misprint.
-No, no, no, it wasn't.
He's here. He's in Kettering.
Anna, what the fuck
are you talking about?
It's Jens. Jens is David Owen.
I saw him dancing with Chloe.
-Jens?
-Yes.
And now he has Kade.
Kade has some kind of
radiation poisoning.
So do I.
-Okay.
-He killed my mother, Fergus.
Just wait here.
(DOOR CREAKING)
We shouldn't be in here.
-It's a crime scene.
-We need the money.
Close the door.
(DOOR CLOSES)
She said it'd be
under the floorboards.
Eliza, this isn't
where Chloe...
(RUMBLING)
What the hell was that noise?
Eliza!
Anna.
Fergus has told me everything.
You need to come with us.
-Let's go.
-Where?
Just...
Just trust me.
There's nothing here. Ugh...
There's some kind
of room down there.
Come on, let's go.
I can't... I...
I can't go in there.
What are you doing?
(CLATTERING)
Shit, there's someone outside.
Eliza, don't!
Eliza!
(CLATTERING)
Fuck.
Why are we here?
Is this about Mum?
Yes.
Hello?
(ECHO) Hello?
Dane?
(ECHOES) Dane?
Hello?
(ECHOES) Hello?
Is anyone there?
(ECHOES) Is anyone there?
Somebody?
(ECHOES) Somebody?
-What's going on?
-You're not well, Anna.
You need help.
No! No! No!
No!
Put her in Ward 6.
Please, please, help me!
Please, help me!
Help me!